will now move on to look a loop in statements.
The statements enable you to execute a number of wines repeatedly either a given number of
times or while a condition is truth in this video,
we'll look at one of the most frequently used of these Lupin statements before next loop.
Let's begin by looking at the basic syntax.
Let's call it for next basics.
To control the for next loop,
you need a counter,
and there's a tradition in most program in languages where you use the throwaway name I as
the name of the counter.
Then the basic syntax is for counter equals start value to end value.
Then you have a series of statements,
and you close the structure with next and you repeat the name of the counter.
The benefit of doing this is that if you have 14 next statement within another,
repeating the name of the counter in the closing statement allows you to see where each of
your loops ends.
So for this first basic example,
let's say that we want to loop through the quarters in a year,
so we know that there are 4/4 the first of which is one and the last of which is full.
So that takes care about start and end in value.
Then our counter is called.
I so replace that with I andro statements.
Let's simply have one MSG box.
We'll have the word quarter full it by I.
So when we run when Lupin in this way,
it's sometimes the case that you don't want to lose sequentially.
You want to jump in certain steps.
For example,
we had an application that was working with the months of a year,
but we currently wanted to process only the last month in each quarter.
We need to start on Month three and then jump in steps of three.
Let's look at how that's done.
I'll just switch back to full model of you.
Let's just call P this,
uh,
procedure and just paste it out to the original and rename it so it's macro be and let's
call it four next steps.
So we're going from three to 12.
But the main thing is,
we used the key word step,
and then it's going to be,
in this case,
three.
So here will have a month,
and then it's run,
so we go from 3 to 6 to nine on.
Then we stopped.
When we get to 12 you can also use the step parameter to loop in reverse.
This is often required where your delete in elements and we'll see examples of this
throughout the course.
So I'll copy this one again on from macro,
see for next reverse.
So it's simply reversed these four 21 Now,
if we don't put this step and we try to run it,
absolutely nothing will happen because to get from the start value to the end value where
step isn't specified,
V B A will always add one by default.
So if you had one to the start value of four,
you get five.
You're going in the wrong direction.
So the end value has already been surpassed and therefore nothing inside the loop will be
executed.
So we simply have to put step minus one to tell BB A that we actually want to add minus one
to get from start value to end value.
One very common use of for next loops is to look through all the items within a collection
of word objects,
such as all the documents that are currently open.
All the paragraphs in a document,
all the tables in a document and so forth.
V b a also contains a variation on the for next loop specifically for that purpose.
Let's have a look at how this works.
Let's say we want to look through all the documents which are currently open and do
something with them in our case will simply display their names.
So the syntax here is for each next to switch across the procedure.
Give for a moment and the key difference between the four.
Each structure on before next that we've already seen is that you don't use an integer
counter.
You simply use an object variable to loop through the object collection.
So because we're working with documents,
we'll need a document variable.
Let's just call it Doc.
You're now the same taxes generically for each object variable in object collection.
Then we have our statements and we close it with next.
And then we repeat the name of the object variable.
So in this case,
the object variable we've defined,
it's called Doc.
The collection that we're looping through is the documents collection,
you know,
so here will need to repeat the name of the object Variable Doc and for our statements will
simply say MSG box,
followed by the name of the documents.
So we can say doc dot name.
At the moment,
we only have one document open the template that we put in the macron.
So when you run,
we simply get the name of that one document.
And of course,
if I go back into word and create a new document,
then run the macro one small.
My now get document one and the original document that I had opened.
Let's just close that unwanted document.
So most of the time where you want to loop through an object selection,
this is the best way to do it.
However,
you can still use the for next loop on.
One of the benefits of doing that is that you have the counter at your disposal,
which you can use to fine tune how the Lupin is actually executed